# Managing Secret Data in Open source Applications

If you're working on an open source project, committing API keys or secrets to your repo is a big no-no. You wouldn't want anyone else making request with your keys, right?

So instead of putting those keys in app/config/initializers set then as environment variables in your shell. Here's an example for a Facebook API key:

    export FB_API_KEY=3629346238763284623874623

Then in your app, load the variable via your environment:

<div class="highlight highlight-source-ruby">

<pre><span class="pl-c1">Facebook</span>::<span class="pl-c1">Api</span>::<span class="pl-c1">KEY</span> <span class="pl-k">=</span> <span class="pl-c1">ENV</span>[<span class="pl-s"><span class="pl-pds">'</span>FB_API_KEY<span class="pl-pds">'</span></span>]</pre>

</div>

All environment variables are available via the constant `ENV`. You can see all the currently set environment variables in your shell by running the command `env`:

    $ env
    SHELL=/opt/boxen/homebrew/bin/zsh
    HOME=/Users/nate
    USER=nate
    LOGNAME=nate
    DISPLAY=/tmp/launch-GHgzYV/org.macosforge.xquartz:0
    COMMAND_MODE=unix2003
    __CF_USER_TEXT_ENCODING=0x1F5:0:0
    TERM_PROGRAM=iTerm.app
    COLORFGBG=7;0
    LANG=en_US.UTF-8
    ITERM_PROFILE=Default
    TERM=xterm-color
    FB_API_KEY=3629346238763284623874623

## [](#improved-local-setup)Improved Local Setup

Remembering to set a collection of environment variables locally can be a real pain. What if you open a new shell? Time to set each variable again! Ain't nobody got time for that!

### [](#dotenv-to-the-rescue)dotenv to the rescue

[dotenv](https://github.com/bkeepers/dotenv) is a great Ruby gem that automatically loads in keys & values from a yaml file, making them available via the `ENV` hash we used earlier. With dotenv, you'll set all of your config in a file `.env`. **Don't commit this file (add it to your .gitignore).**

## [](#server-side-setup)Server side setup

### [](#the-traditional-way)The traditional way

On the server, you'll need to repeat the same process, setting the necessary environment variables. You might decide to edit the `.bash_profile` or `.bashrc` for the user that runs your app.

### [](#the-heroku-way)The Heroku way

Heroku doesn't give you access to a shell, but they do provide a mechanism for setting environment variables:

    heroku config:set FB_API_KEY=3629346238763284623874623

You can see all the environment variables currently set for your app by running `heroku config`

    $ heroku config

    FB_API_KEY: 3629346238763284623874623

See the following article for more details on setting and managing environment variables with Heroku [Configuration and Config Vars](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/config-vars)

## [](#removing-sensitive-data)Removing Sensitive Data

If you've already committed sensitive data to your repo, here's a helpful article on how to remove it: [Remove Sensitive Data](https://help.github.com/articles/remove-sensitive-data)

Be very careful with removing data from a Git repo. Work on a separate branch of course and have a peer review your commit before pushing/merging any changes.
